README.md, before:

# Build tasks for Pip.WebUI Projects

This module provides gulp tasks to build Pip.WebUI projects:

* Build deployable artifacts from sources in JavaScript, TypeScript, HTML, CSS/Less
* Copy external libraries and other resources to the destination folder
* Run tests, validate sources
* Generate API documentation
* Launch and publish samples
* Build hybrid cordova apps
* Publish complete applications

## Quick Links

- [Usage instructions](#usage)
- [Tasks reference for gulpfile.js](#tasks)
- [Configuration in build.config.js](#config)

## <a name="usage"></a> Usage

Using standard build tasks in your projects is pretty easy. There are only 3 simple steps you need to do

###<a name="step_1"></a> Step 1. Add dependency to pip-webui-tasks in your package.json file

```js
...
"devDependencies": {
    ...
    "pip-webui-tasks": "*"
    ...
}
...
```

###<a name="step_2"></a> Step 2. Create build configuration

Project build configuration shall be defined in **build.conf.js** file located in the project root folder.
Typical configuration for your project may look like the sample below:

```js
module.exports = {
    module: {
        name: 'pipMyModule',
        index: 'my_module'
    },
    build: {
        js: true,
        ts: false,
        html: true,
        css: true,
        lib: true,
        images: true
    },
    file: {
        import: [
            './bower_components/pip-webui/dist/**/*'
        ]
    }
    samples: {
        port: 8099,
        publish: {
            bucket: 'my_backet',
            accessKeyId: 'XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX',
            secretAccessKey: 'xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx',
            region: 'us-west-1'
        },
    }
};
```

###<a name="step_3"></a> Step 3. Create gulp file

The main purpose of **gulpfile.js" is to expose standard tasks for the build process.

```js
var gulp = require('gulp');

// Add standard tasks
require('./tasks').all();

// Define build tasks
gulp.task('build', ['build-dev', 'build-prod']);
gulp.task('rebuild', ['build-dev']);
gulp.task('clean', ['build-clean']);
gulp.task('watch', ['build-watch']);
gulp.task('lint', ['test-lesslint', 'test-jslint']);
gulp.task('launch', ['samples-launch']);
gulp.task('publish', ['samples-publish']);

// Set default task
gulp.task('default', ['build']);
```

You can always add your own tasks and mix them with the standard ones. 

## <a name="tasks"></a> Tasks Reference

### Build tasks

- **build-html-dev** - Takes HTML files, wraps them into JavScript and adds to $templateCache service
- **build-html-prod** - Does the same thing as **build-html-dev** and minifies HTML
- **build-css-dev** - Compiles less scripts into CSS styles. This task uses index less file which references all other less files
- **build-css-prod** - Does the same thing as **build-css-dev** and minifies CSS
- **build-ts** - Compiles TypeScript files, adds type defiitions and places resulted .js, .map and .d.ts files into temp folder
- **build-js-dev** - Merges all JavaScript files, including wrapped HTML and compiled TypeScript, does annotations, generates .map and places result into dist folder
- **build-js-prod** - Does the same thing as **build-js-dev** and minifies JavaScript
- **build-res-dev** - Copies resources and 3rd party libraries
- **build-res-prod** - Currently it is identical to **build-res-dev**
- **build-dev** - Combines all development build tasks
- **build-prod** - Combines all production build tasks
- **build-watch** - Watches for changed files in src folder and automatically starts development build
- **build-clean** - Cleans temp and dist folders

## Test tasks

- **test-jslint** - Performs validation of JavaScript source files by eslint
- **test-lesslint** - Performs validation of less source files by lesshint
- **test-karma** - Performs running unit-test by karma runner.

## Samples tasks

- **samples-launch** - Launches web-server and web-browser to access samples
- **samples-publish** - Publishes samples to S3-based static website

## <a name="config"></a> Configuration

Build configuration file is broken into few sections

##<a name="module_section"></a> module section

Global configuration parameters for the entire project/module
- **name**: string - Name of Angular module. The name is currently used to set the name for wrapped HTML as &lt;module.name&gt;.Templates
- **index**: string - Name of index JavaScript and Less files. The index is currently used to set the name of the main Less file as src/&lt;module.index&gt;.less

## <a name="dir_section"></a> dir section

Configuration parameters to set names of standard project folders
- **src**: string - Source folder where JavaScript, TypeScript, HTML and CSS files and resources are located (default: './src/')
- **test**: string - Test folder where JavaScript test files are located (default: './test/')
- **temp**: string - Folder for temporary build artifacts (default: './temp')
- **lib**: string - Temporary folder where all 3rd party libraries are copied (default: './lib')
- **dist**: string - Distination folder for produced artifacts (default: './dist')
- **samples**: string - Folder where samples are located (default: './samples')
- **cordova**: string - Location to copy web application for cordova build (default: './cordova/www')
- **api**: string - Folder to place generated API documentation (default: './doc/api')

##<a name="file_section"></a> file section

Configuration parameters for file sets
- **import**: string[] - Files and folders in 3rd party librarties to copied over to lib and used in testing and samples (default: pip-webui module)
- **def**: string[] - Type definitions which are used to compile TypeScript code (default: all files in typings folder)
- **res**: string[] - Resources and folders to copy over to lib folder (default: empty)

##<a name="build_section"></a> build section

Configuration parameters to control the build process
- **js**: boolean - Enable JavaScript build (including HTML and TypeScript) (default: true)
- **ts**: boolean - Enable TypeScript compilation (default: true)
- **html**: boolean - Enable HTML wrapping (default: true)
- **css**: boolean - Enable Less to CSS compilation (default: true)
- **lib**: boolean - Enable copying 3rd party libraries (default: true)
- **images**: boolean - Enable copying image files (default: true)

##<a name="samples_section"></a> samples section

Configuration parameters to control samples tasks
- **port**: number - Launched web server port (default: 8000)
- **publish**: object - S3 bucket properties for samples publishing
  - **bucket**: string - S3 bucket name
  - **accessKeyId**: string - Access key for AWS account
  - **secretAccessKey**: string - Secret access key for AWS account
  - **region**: string - AWS region where S3 bucket is located

##<a name="api_section"></a> api section

Configuration parameters to documentation generation tasks
- **publish**: object - S3 bucket properties for api documentation publishing
  - **bucket**: string - S3 bucket name
  - **accessKeyId**: string - Access key for AWS account
  - **secretAccessKey**: string - Secret access key for AWS account
  - **region**: string - AWS region where S3 bucket is located

##<a name="eslint_section"></a> eslint section

See [eslint documentation...](http://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/configuring)

##<a name="lesslint_section"></a> lesslint section

See [lesslint documentation...](https://github.com/lesshint/lesshint#configuration)

For more information about Pip.WebUI project, please, visit http://www.pipwebui.org

Commit message:

Separated api, test and cordova tasks

README.md, after:

# Build tasks for Pip.WebUI Projects

This module provides gulp tasks to build Pip.WebUI projects:

* Build deployable artifacts from sources in JavaScript, TypeScript, HTML, CSS/Less
* Copy external libraries and other resources to the destination folder
* Run tests, validate sources
* Generate API documentation
* Launch and publish samples
* Build hybrid cordova apps
* Publish complete applications

## Quick Links

- [Usage instructions](#usage)
- [Tasks reference for gulpfile.js](#tasks)
- [Configuration in build.config.js](#config)

## <a name="usage"></a> Usage

Using standard build tasks in your projects is pretty easy. There are only 3 simple steps you need to do

###<a name="step_1"></a> Step 1. Add dependency to pip-webui-tasks in your package.json file

```js
...
"devDependencies": {
    ...
    "pip-webui-tasks": "*"
    ...
}
...
```

###<a name="step_2"></a> Step 2. Create build configuration

Project build configuration shall be defined in **build.conf.js** file located in the project root folder.
Typical configuration for your project may look like the sample below:

```js
module.exports = {
    module: {
        name: 'pipMyModule',
        index: 'my_module'
    },
    build: {
        js: true,
        ts: false,
        html: true,
        css: true,
        lib: true,
        images: true
    },
    file: {
        import: [
            './bower_components/pip-webui/dist/**/*'
        ]
    }
    samples: {
        port: 8099,
        publish: {
            bucket: 'my_backet',
            accessKeyId: 'XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX',
            secretAccessKey: 'xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx',
            region: 'us-west-1'
        },
    }
};
```

###<a name="step_3"></a> Step 3. Create gulp file

The main purpose of **gulpfile.js" is to expose standard tasks for the build process.

```js
var gulp = require('gulp');

// Add standard tasks
require('./tasks').all();

// Define build tasks
gulp.task('build', ['build-dev', 'build-prod']);
gulp.task('rebuild', ['build-dev']);
gulp.task('clean', ['build-clean']);
gulp.task('watch', ['build-watch']);
gulp.task('lint', ['test-lesslint', 'test-jslint']);
gulp.task('launch', ['samples-launch']);
gulp.task('publish', ['samples-publish']);

// Set default task
gulp.task('default', ['build']);
```

You can always add your own tasks and mix them with the standard ones. 

## <a name="tasks"></a> Tasks Reference

### Build tasks

- **build-html-dev** - Takes HTML files, wraps them into JavScript and adds to $templateCache service
- **build-html-prod** - Does the same thing as **build-html-dev** and minifies HTML
- **build-css-dev** - Compiles less scripts into CSS styles. This task uses index less file which references all other less files
- **build-css-prod** - Does the same thing as **build-css-dev** and minifies CSS
- **build-ts** - Compiles TypeScript files, adds type defiitions and places resulted .js, .map and .d.ts files into temp folder
- **build-js-dev** - Merges all JavaScript files, including wrapped HTML and compiled TypeScript, does annotations, generates .map and places result into dist folder
- **build-js-prod** - Does the same thing as **build-js-dev** and minifies JavaScript
- **build-res-dev** - Copies resources and 3rd party libraries
- **build-res-prod** - Currently it is identical to **build-res-dev**
- **build-dev** - Combines all development build tasks
- **build-prod** - Combines all production build tasks
- **build-watch** - Watches for changed files in src folder and automatically starts development build
- **build-clean** - Cleans temp and dist folders

## Cordova tasks

- **cordova-copy** - Copies content from ./dist folder to cordova www location

## Test tasks

- **test-jslint** - Performs validation of JavaScript source files by eslint
- **test-lesslint** - Performs validation of less source files by lesshint
- **test-karma** - Performs running unit-test by karma runner.

## Samples tasks

- **samples-launch** - Launches web-server and web-browser to access samples
- **samples-publish** - Publishes samples to S3-based static website

## API tasks

- **api-generate** - Generates API documentation
- **api-launch** - Launches web-server and web-browser to access API documentation
- **api-publish** - Publishes API documentation to S3-based static website

## <a name="config"></a> Configuration

Build configuration file is broken into few sections

##<a name="module_section"></a> module section

Global configuration parameters for the entire project/module
- **name**: string - Name of Angular module. The name is currently used to set the name for wrapped HTML as &lt;module.name&gt;.Templates
- **index**: string - Name of index JavaScript and Less files. The index is currently used to set the name of the main Less file as src/&lt;module.index&gt;.less

## <a name="dir_section"></a> dir section

Configuration parameters to set names of standard project folders
- **src**: string - Source folder where JavaScript, TypeScript, HTML and CSS files and resources are located (default: './src/')
- **test**: string - Test folder where JavaScript test files are located (default: './test/')
- **temp**: string - Folder for temporary build artifacts (default: './temp')
- **lib**: string - Temporary folder where all 3rd party libraries are copied (default: './lib')
- **dist**: string - Distination folder for produced artifacts (default: './dist')
- **samples**: string - Folder where samples are located (default: './samples')
- **cordova**: string - Location to copy web application for cordova build (default: './cordova/www')
- **api**: string - Folder to place generated API documentation (default: './doc/api')

##<a name="file_section"></a> file section

Configuration parameters for file sets
- **lib**: string[] - Files and folders in 3rd party librarties to copied over to lib and used in testing and samples (default: pip-webui module)
- **def**: string[] - Type definitions which are used to compile TypeScript code (default: all files in typings folder)
- **res**: string[] - Resources and folders to copy over to lib folder (default: empty)

##<a name="build_section"></a> build section

Configuration parameters to control the build process
- **js**: boolean - Enable JavaScript build (including HTML and TypeScript) (default: true)
- **ts**: boolean - Enable TypeScript compilation (default: true)
- **html**: boolean - Enable HTML wrapping (default: true)
- **css**: boolean - Enable Less to CSS compilation (default: true)
- **lib**: boolean - Enable copying 3rd party libraries (default: true)
- **images**: boolean - Enable copying image files (default: true)

##<a name="samples_section"></a> samples section

Configuration parameters to control samples tasks
- **port**: number - Launched web server port (default: 8000)
- **publish**: object - S3 bucket properties for samples publishing
  - **bucket**: string - S3 bucket name
  - **accessKeyId**: string - Access key for AWS account
  - **secretAccessKey**: string - Secret access key for AWS account
  - **region**: string - AWS region where S3 bucket is located

##<a name="api_section"></a> api section

Configuration parameters for API documentation generation tasks
- **port**: number - Launched web server port (default: 8008)
- **publish**: object - S3 bucket properties for api documentation publishing
  - **bucket**: string - S3 bucket name
  - **accessKeyId**: string - Access key for AWS account
  - **secretAccessKey**: string - Secret access key for AWS account
  - **region**: string - AWS region where S3 bucket is located

##<a name="eslint_section"></a> eslint section

See [eslint documentation](http://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/configuring) for details.

##<a name="lesslint_section"></a> lesslint section

See [lesslint documentation](https://github.com/lesshint/lesshint#configuration) for details.

For more information about Pip.WebUI project, please, visit http://www.pipwebui.org
